CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!--

Thank you for contributing changes to this document! Because we use a central repository
to synchronize this file across all our repositories, make sure to make your edits
in the correct file, which you can find here:

https://github.com/ory/meta/blob/master/templates/repository/common/CONTRIBUTING.md

-->

# Contribute to Ory Ory Keto Rust Client

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [How can I contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
- [Communication](#communication)
- [Contribute examples](#contribute-examples)
- [Contribute code](#contribute-code)
- [Contribute documentation](#contribute-documentation)
- [Disclosing vulnerabilities](#disclosing-vulnerabilities)
- [Code style](#code-style)
  - [Working with forks](#working-with-forks)
- [Conduct](#conduct)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Introduction

_Please note_: We take Ory Ory Keto Rust Client's security and our users' trust very
seriously. If you believe you have found a security issue in Ory Ory Keto Rust Client,
please disclose by contacting us at security@ory.sh.

There are many ways in which you can contribute. The goal of this document is to
provide a high-level overview of how you can get involved in Ory.

As a potential contributor, your changes and ideas are welcome at any hour of
the day or night, weekdays, weekends, and holidays. Please do not ever hesitate
to ask a question or send a pull request.

If you are unsure, just ask or submit the issue or pull request anyways. You
won't be yelled at for giving it your best effort. The worst that can happen is
that you'll be politely asked to change something. We appreciate any sort of
contributions, and don't want a wall of rules to get in the way of that.

That said, if you want to ensure that a pull request is likely to be merged,
talk to us! You can find out our thoughts and ensure that your contribution
won't clash with Ory
Ory Keto Rust Client's direction. A great way to
do this is via
[Ory Ory Keto Rust Client Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ory/discussions)
or the [Ory Chat](https://www.ory.sh/chat).

## FAQ

- I am new to the community. Where can I find the
  [Ory Community Code of Conduct?](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

- I have a question. Where can I get
  [answers to questions regarding Ory Ory Keto Rust Client?](#communication)

- I would like to contribute but I am not sure how. Are there
  [easy ways to contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  [Or good first issues?](https://github.com/search?l=&o=desc&q=label%3A%22help+wanted%22+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22+is%3Aopen+user%3Aory+user%3Aory-corp&s=updated&type=Issues)

- I want to talk to other Ory Ory Keto Rust Client users.
  [How can I become a part of the community?](#communication)

- I would like to know what I am agreeing to when I contribute to Ory
  Ory Keto Rust Client.
  Does Ory have
  [a Contributors License Agreement?](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust)

- I would like updates about new versions of Ory Ory Keto Rust Client.
  [How are new releases announced?](https://ory.us10.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=ffb1a878e4ec6c0ed312a3480&id=f605a41b53)

## How can I contribute?

If you want to start to contribute code right away, take a look at the
[list of good first issues](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/labels/good%20first%20issue).

There are many other ways you can contribute. Here are a few things you can do
to help out:

- **Give us a star.** It may not seem like much, but it really makes a
  difference. This is something that everyone can do to help out Ory Ory Keto Rust Client.
  Github stars help the project gain visibility and stand out.

- **Join the community.** Sometimes helping people can be as easy as listening
  to their problems and offering a different perspective. Join our Slack, have a
  look at discussions in the forum and take part in community events. More info
  on this in [Communication](#communication).

- **Answer discussions.** There are at all times a number of unanswered
  discussions on GitHub, you can see an
  [overview here](https://github.com/discussions?discussions_q=is%3Aunanswered+org%3Aory+sort%3Aupdated-desc).
  If you think you know an answer or can provide some information that might
  help, please share it! Bonus: You get GitHub achievements for answered
  discussions.

- **Help with open issues.** We have a lot of open issues for Ory Ory Keto Rust Client and
  some of them may lack necessary information, some are duplicates of older
  issues. You can help out by guiding people through the process of filling out
  the issue template, asking for clarifying information, or pointing them to
  existing issues that match their description of the problem.

- **Review documentation changes.** Most documentation just needs a review for
  proper spelling and grammar. If you think a document can be improved in any
  way, feel free to hit the `edit` button at the top of the page. More info on
  contributing to documentation [here](#contribute-documentation).

- **Help with tests.** Pull requests may lack proper tests or test plans. These
  are needed for the change to be implemented safely.

## Communication

We use [Slack](https://www.ory.sh/chat). You are welcome to drop in and ask
questions, discuss bugs and feature requests, talk to other users of Ory, etc.

Check out [Ory Ory Keto Rust Client Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ory/discussions). This is a great place for
in-depth discussions and lots of code examples, logs and similar data.

You can also join our community calls, if you want to speak to the Ory team
directly or ask some questions. You can find more info and participate in
[Slack](https://www.ory.sh/chat) in the #community-call channel.

If you want to receive regular notifications about updates to Ory Ory Keto Rust Client,
consider joining the mailing list. We will _only_ send you vital information on
the projects that you are interested in.

Also [follow us on twitter](https://twitter.com/orycorp).

## Contribute examples

One of the most impactful ways to make a contribution is adding examples. You
can find an overview of examples using Ory services in the
[documentation examples page](https://www.ory.sh/docs/examples). Source code for
examples can be found in most cases in the
[ory/examples](https://github.com/ory/examples) repository.

_If you would like to contribute a new example, we would love to hear from you!_

Please [open an issue](https://github.com/ory/examples/issues/new/choose) to
describe your example before you start working on it. We would love to provide
guidance to make for a pleasant contribution experience. Go through this
checklist to contribute an example:

1. Create a github issue proposing a new example and make sure it's different
   from an existing one.
1. Fork the repo and create a feature branch off of `master` so that changes do
   not get mixed up.
1. Add a descriptive prefix to commits. This ensures a uniform commit history
   and helps structure the changelog. Please refer to this
   [list of prefixes for Ory Keto Rust Client](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/.github/semantic.yml)
   for an overview.
1. Create a `README.md` that explains how to use the example. (Use
   [the README template](https://github.com/ory/examples/blob/master/_common/README)).
1. Open a pull request and maintainers will review and merge your example.

## Contribute code

Unless you are fixing a known bug, we **strongly** recommend discussing it with
the core team via a GitHub issue or [in our chat](https://www.ory.sh/chat)
before getting started to ensure your work is consistent with Ory Ory Keto Rust Client's
roadmap and architecture.

All contributions are made via pull requests. To make a pull request, you will
need a GitHub account; if you are unclear on this process, see GitHub's
documentation on [forking](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) and
[pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests). Pull
requests should be targeted at the `master` branch. Before creating a pull
request, go through this checklist:

1. Create a feature branch off of `master` so that changes do not get mixed up.
1. [Rebase](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Branching-Rebasing) your local
   changes against the `master` branch.
1. Run the full project test suite with the `go test -tags sqlite ./...` (or
   equivalent) command and confirm that it passes.
1. Run `make format`
1. Add a descriptive prefix to commits. This ensures a uniform commit history
   and helps structure the changelog. Please refer to this
   [list of prefixes for Ory Keto Rust Client](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/.github/semantic.yml)
   for an overview.

If a pull request is not ready to be reviewed yet
[it should be marked as a "Draft"](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request).

Before your contributions can be reviewed you need to sign our
[Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust).

This agreement defines the terms under which your code is contributed to Ory.
More specifically it declares that you have the right to, and actually do, grant
us the rights to use your contribution. You can see the Apache 2.0 license under
which our projects are published
[here](https://github.com/ory/meta/blob/master/LICENSE).

When pull requests fail testing, authors are expected to update their pull
requests to address the failures until the tests pass.

Pull requests eligible for review

1. follow the repository's code formatting conventions;
2. include tests which prove that the change works as intended and does not add
   regressions;
3. document the changes in the code and/or the project's documentation;
4. pass the CI pipeline;
5. have signed our
   [Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust);
6. include a proper git commit message following the
   [Conventional Commit Specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

If all of these items are checked, the pull request is ready to be reviewed and
you should change the status to "Ready for review" and
[request review from a maintainer](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).

Reviewers will approve the pull request once they are satisfied with the patch.

## Contribute documentation

Please provide documentation when changing, removing, or adding features. All
Ory Documentation resides in the
[Ory documentation repository](https://github.com/ory/docs/). For further
instructions please head over to the Ory Documentation
[README.md](https://github.com/ory/docs/blob/master/README.md).

## Disclosing vulnerabilities

Please disclose vulnerabilities exclusively to
[security@ory.sh](mailto:security@ory.sh). Do not use GitHub issues.

## Code style

Please run `make format` to format all source code following the Ory standard.

### Working with forks

```bash
# First you clone the original repository
git clone git@github.com:ory/ory/keto-client-rust.git

# Next you add a git remote that is your fork:
git remote add fork git@github.com:<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME-HERE>/ory/keto-client-rust.git

# Next you fetch the latest changes from origin for master:
git fetch origin
git checkout master
git pull --rebase

# Next you create a new feature branch off of master:
git checkout my-feature-branch

# Now you do your work and commit your changes:
git add -A
git commit -a -m "fix: this is the subject line" -m "This is the body line. Closes #123"

# And the last step is pushing this to your fork
git push -u fork my-feature-branch
```

Now go to the project's GitHub Pull Request page and click "New pull request"

## Conduct

Whether you are a regular contributor or a newcomer, we care about making this
community a safe place for you and we've got your back.

[Ory Community Code of Conduct](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

We welcome discussion about creating a welcoming, safe, and productive
environment for the community. If you have any questions, feedback, or concerns
[please let us know](https://www.ory.sh/chat).

Commit message:

chore: update repository templates to https://github.com/ory/meta/commit/4ef13422e91f15b9f70014a0d67b92498ab728d1

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!--

Thank you for contributing changes to this document! Because we use a central repository
to synchronize this file across all our repositories, make sure to make your edits
in the correct file, which you can find here:

https://github.com/ory/meta/blob/master/templates/repository/common/CONTRIBUTING.md

-->

# Contribute to Ory Ory Keto Rust Client

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [FAQ](#faq)
- [How can I contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
- [Communication](#communication)
- [Contribute examples](#contribute-examples)
- [Contribute code](#contribute-code)
- [Contribute documentation](#contribute-documentation)
- [Disclosing vulnerabilities](#disclosing-vulnerabilities)
- [Code style](#code-style)
  - [Working with forks](#working-with-forks)
- [Conduct](#conduct)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Introduction

_Please note_: We take Ory Ory Keto Rust Client's security and our users' trust very
seriously. If you believe you have found a security issue in Ory Ory Keto Rust Client,
please disclose it by contacting us at security@ory.sh.

There are many ways in which you can contribute. The goal of this document is to
provide a high-level overview of how you can get involved in Ory.

As a potential contributor, your changes and ideas are welcome at any hour of
the day or night, on weekdays, weekends, and holidays. Please do not ever
hesitate to ask a question or send a pull request.

If you are unsure, just ask or submit the issue or pull request anyways. You
won't be yelled at for giving it your best effort. The worst that can happen is
that you'll be politely asked to change something. We appreciate any sort of
contributions and don't want a wall of rules to get in the way of that.

That said, if you want to ensure that a pull request is likely to be merged,
talk to us! You can find out our thoughts and ensure that your contribution
won't clash with Ory
Ory Keto Rust Client's direction. A great way to
do this is via
[Ory Ory Keto Rust Client Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ory/discussions)
or the [Ory Chat](https://www.ory.sh/chat).

## FAQ

- I am new to the community. Where can I find the
  [Ory Community Code of Conduct?](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

- I have a question. Where can I get
  [answers to questions regarding Ory Ory Keto Rust Client?](#communication)

- I would like to contribute but I am not sure how. Are there
  [easy ways to contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  [Or good first issues?](https://github.com/search?l=&o=desc&q=label%3A%22help+wanted%22+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22+is%3Aopen+user%3Aory+user%3Aory-corp&s=updated&type=Issues)

- I want to talk to other Ory Ory Keto Rust Client users.
  [How can I become a part of the community?](#communication)

- I would like to know what I am agreeing to when I contribute to Ory
  Ory Keto Rust Client.
  Does Ory have
  [a Contributors License Agreement?](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust)

- I would like updates about new versions of Ory Ory Keto Rust Client.
  [How are new releases announced?](https://ory.us10.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=ffb1a878e4ec6c0ed312a3480&id=f605a41b53)

## How can I contribute?

If you want to start to contribute code right away, take a look at the
[list of good first issues](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/labels/good%20first%20issue).

There are many other ways you can contribute. Here are a few things you can do
to help out:

- **Give us a star.** It may not seem like much, but it really makes a
  difference. This is something that everyone can do to help out Ory Ory Keto Rust Client.
  Github stars help the project gain visibility and stand out.

- **Join the community.** Sometimes helping people can be as easy as listening
  to their problems and offering a different perspective. Join our Slack, have a
  look at discussions in the forum and take part in community events. More info
  on this in [Communication](#communication).

- **Answer discussions.** At all times, there are several unanswered discussions
  on GitHub. You can see an
  [overview here](https://github.com/discussions?discussions_q=is%3Aunanswered+org%3Aory+sort%3Aupdated-desc).
  If you think you know an answer or can provide some information that might
  help, please share it! Bonus: You get GitHub achievements for answered
  discussions.

- **Help with open issues.** We have a lot of open issues for Ory Ory Keto Rust Client and
  some of them may lack necessary information, some are duplicates of older
  issues. You can help out by guiding people through the process of filling out
  the issue template, asking for clarifying information or pointing them to
  existing issues that match their description of the problem.

- **Review documentation changes.** Most documentation just needs a review for
  proper spelling and grammar. If you think a document can be improved in any
  way, feel free to hit the `edit` button at the top of the page. More info on
  contributing to the documentation [here](#contribute-documentation).

- **Help with tests.** Pull requests may lack proper tests or test plans. These
  are needed for the change to be implemented safely.

## Communication

We use [Slack](https://www.ory.sh/chat). You are welcome to drop in and ask
questions, discuss bugs and feature requests, talk to other users of Ory, etc.

Check out [Ory Ory Keto Rust Client Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/ory/discussions). This is a great place for
in-depth discussions and lots of code examples, logs and similar data.

You can also join our community calls if you want to speak to the Ory team
directly or ask some questions. You can find more info and participate in
[Slack](https://www.ory.sh/chat) in the #community-call channel.

If you want to receive regular notifications about updates to Ory Ory Keto Rust Client,
consider joining the mailing list. We will _only_ send you vital information on
the projects that you are interested in.

Also, [follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/orycorp).

## Contribute examples

One of the most impactful ways to contribute is by adding examples. You can find
an overview of examples using Ory services on the
[documentation examples page](https://www.ory.sh/docs/examples). Source code for
examples can be found in most cases in the
[ory/examples](https://github.com/ory/examples) repository.

_If you would like to contribute a new example, we would love to hear from you!_

Please [open an issue](https://github.com/ory/examples/issues/new/choose) to
describe your example before you start working on it. We would love to provide
guidance to make for a pleasant contribution experience. Go through this
checklist to contribute an example:

1. Create a GitHub issue proposing a new example and make sure it's different
   from an existing one.
1. Fork the repo and create a feature branch off of `master` so that changes do
   not get mixed up.
1. Add a descriptive prefix to commits. This ensures a uniform commit history
   and helps structure the changelog. Please refer to this
   [list of prefixes for Ory Keto Rust Client](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/.github/semantic.yml)
   for an overview.
1. Create a `README.md` that explains how to use the example. (Use
   [the README template](https://github.com/ory/examples/blob/master/_common/README)).
1. Open a pull request and maintainers will review and merge your example.

## Contribute code

Unless you are fixing a known bug, we **strongly** recommend discussing it with
the core team via a GitHub issue or [in our chat](https://www.ory.sh/chat)
before getting started to ensure your work is consistent with Ory Ory Keto Rust Client's
roadmap and architecture.

All contributions are made via pull requests. To make a pull request, you will
need a GitHub account; if you are unclear on this process, see GitHub's
documentation on [forking](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) and
[pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests). Pull
requests should be targeted at the `master` branch. Before creating a pull
request, go through this checklist:

1. Create a feature branch off of `master` so that changes do not get mixed up.
1. [Rebase](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Branching-Rebasing) your local
   changes against the `master` branch.
1. Run the full project test suite with the `go test -tags sqlite ./...` (or
   equivalent) command and confirm that it passes.
1. Run `make format`
1. Add a descriptive prefix to commits. This ensures a uniform commit history
   and helps structure the changelog. Please refer to this
   [list of prefixes for Ory Keto Rust Client](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/.github/semantic.yml)
   for an overview.

If a pull request is not ready to be reviewed yet
[it should be marked as a "Draft"](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request).

Before your contributions can be reviewed you need to sign our
[Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust).

This agreement defines the terms under which your code is contributed to Ory.
More specifically it declares that you have the right to, and actually do, grant
us the rights to use your contribution. You can see the Apache 2.0 license under
which our projects are published
[here](https://github.com/ory/meta/blob/master/LICENSE).

When pull requests fail the automated testing stages (for example unit or E2E
tests), authors are expected to update their pull requests to address the
failures until the tests pass.

Pull requests eligible for review

1. follow the repository's code formatting conventions;
2. include tests that prove that the change works as intended and does not add
   regressions;
3. document the changes in the code and/or the project's documentation;
4. pass the CI pipeline;
5. have signed our
   [Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/ory/keto-client-rust);
6. include a proper git commit message following the
   [Conventional Commit Specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

If all of these items are checked, the pull request is ready to be reviewed and
you should change the status to "Ready for review" and
[request review from a maintainer](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/requesting-a-pull-request-review).

Reviewers will approve the pull request once they are satisfied with the patch.

## Contribute documentation

Please provide documentation when changing, removing, or adding features. All
Ory Documentation resides in the
[Ory documentation repository](https://github.com/ory/docs/). For further
instructions please head over to the Ory Documentation
[README.md](https://github.com/ory/docs/blob/master/README.md).

## Disclosing vulnerabilities

Please disclose vulnerabilities exclusively to
[security@ory.sh](mailto:security@ory.sh). Do not use GitHub issues.

## Code style

Please run `make format` to format all source code following the Ory standard.

### Working with forks

```bash
# First you clone the original repository
git clone git@github.com:ory/ory/keto-client-rust.git

# Next you add a git remote that is your fork:
git remote add fork git@github.com:<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME-HERE>/ory/keto-client-rust.git

# Next you fetch the latest changes from origin for master:
git fetch origin
git checkout master
git pull --rebase

# Next you create a new feature branch off of master:
git checkout my-feature-branch

# Now you do your work and commit your changes:
git add -A
git commit -a -m "fix: this is the subject line" -m "This is the body line. Closes #123"

# And the last step is pushing this to your fork
git push -u fork my-feature-branch
```

Now go to the project's GitHub Pull Request page and click "New pull request"

## Conduct

Whether you are a regular contributor or a newcomer, we care about making this
community a safe place for you and we've got your back.

[Ory Community Code of Conduct](https://github.com/ory/keto-client-rust/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

We welcome discussion about creating a welcoming, safe, and productive
environment for the community. If you have any questions, feedback, or concerns
[please let us know](https://www.ory.sh/chat).
